Setting up a virtual environment on ubuntu.
Virtual environment is a tool that allows users to create isolated Python environments.
It's like Docker, ensuring that each project has its own dependencies and packages and dependent of
others.
First step we will verify the installation of Python three via the command Python 3-V.
Let's do that.
Okay, I have the version 3.3 and this is the default version in my ubuntu.
How can I change the default version?
I can change the default version via this command sudo update alternatives dash dash config Python three.
I have two version 3.1 and 3.3.
We will continue with this version 3.13.
Next step we will install virtual environment via the command sudo apt get install python the same version
in the same default version virtual env.
Let's install the virtual environment.
I will change the version.
Okay, the virtual environment was successfully installed.
Next step we will create our first virtual environment via the command python3 m virtual environment.
My working directory and the name of the virtual environment.
Let's verify the creation stopped.
Okay.
The word environment was successfully created.
Next step will activate the via the command source.
My first virtual environment.
That means the the name of my virtual environment.
Slash.
Bin.
Activate.
No such file or directory.
Okay, I will fix the path.
And the virtual environment was activated.
We will do two two example to understand more how works with the virtual environment.
The first example we will create a file hello P Greg.
And after that we will run via the command python3.
And the second example we will install Django.
Let's start by the first example.
I clear the screen.
Hello, Greg.
I execute my file in my virtual environment.
Okay.
Hello, world.
Next we will install Django.
In this virtual environment.
Django was successfully installed.
After working with the virtual environment.
We can deactivate it via the command.
Deactivate.
And the virtual environment was successfully deactivated.